[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Void tags or
self closing tags are essentially tags
that do not need a closing tag.
That's what void tags or
self closing tags mean.
So if you notice for every div I have,
there's a closing div,
right, the slash div.
There are some elements that
doesn't really make sense on,
because they're kind of like,
they would never encompass something else.
>> Male Student 1: Going back to the m and
strong tags,
I was just wondering,
can you override that with CSS?
>> Brian Holt: Absolutely.
>> Male Student 1: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Totally.
Cool.
So void tags.
You know when you're
filling out a form and
they have a little piece of something that
you can fill out, it says enter your name,
enter your last name, enter your address.
Those are input elements,
it's something that the user can
click on and then start typing into.
So you would never have
anything inside of an input and
the fact of the matter is you can't
have anything inside those input.
You're not going to have
a paragraph inside of your input.
So instead of being contrived and
just doing input/input, they said let's
just save four keystrokes and we'll have
like a trailing slash at the end, right?
So that's what this trailing
slash right there means.
It means that this is a tag
that is self contained,
that needs no closing tag,
it closes itself.
So, I think I have.
Get rid of that.
>> Brian Holt: I have
an example right here.
>> Brian Holt: You'll find that we have
a lot of cat pictures in this workshop.
So if you like cats, get excited.
[COUGH]
So,
here I have two different
self closing tags.
Apparently I put in attributes.
So ignore the image for right now, okay?
We're just gonna talk
about the input up here.
So the input is this thing right here,
right and
you can type things in it, okay.
Again, it doesn't make any sense to
put anything inside of there, right?
You can't put a paragraph in here,
you can't put a div in here,
it's just a tag that exists by itself and
so what they have done is they have
just made this a self closing tag.
Any more you actually don't
even have to put that slash,
this is actually valid as well and
it's just a tag that just never closes.
That's okay.
You'll see it quite often, you'll also
see this, both of them are valid.
I'd recommend at least until you
really understand about development,
just putting it there, it's really just
kind of an useful indicator to yourself.
This is what this is, right?
Okay, so down here, I have the IMG which
is an image tag as you might imagine,
an image tag is just like it's a tag that
I'm gonna put a picture on the page,
right and as you notice,
it is a self closing tag, right?
You're not gonna put something inside
of the image or rather you can't.
You might want to, but you can't.
If you want to maybe at
the end of the class,
we'll show you how but it's not intuitive.
Okay, so that's what the image tag does.
Now in order for an image tag to work
you have to tell the browser this is
the picture I want you to use, right?
You can't just say please
give me a picture, right?
Asking the Internet for a picture
probably is not going to end well, so
you wanna define the picture yourself.
So that's what this SRC is, right?
It's just saying here's the picture
I want you to put here.
In this particular example,
I use this place kitten website where
you can just say like please
give me a 400 by 400 image.
400 is pixels, right it's 400 pixels.
So if I say 300,
I'll get a different picture.
You're so lucky, right?
You get to see cat pictures all day.
But what are you expecting form
someone from Reddit, right?
It's just tons of cat pictures on Reddit.
Okay, so
>> Brian Holt: That's the place kitten
part's not important,
they're just place holder pictures.
So that's what this SRC is,
it's called an attribute.
So sometimes
>> Male Student 1: Hey Brian,
you're asking what's the difference
between the bold tag and the strong tag?
>> Brian Holt: So there is a bold tag.
It does exist, just don't use it.
It's old and I was describing the very
problem with the bold tag earlier,
that sometime later you're gonna want your
bold text to not be bold but be green
instead or just you're gonna wanna change
it to be something other than bold.
And in that particular case,
you now have a bold tag that
no longer makes things bold.
It just doesn't make any sense.
It's bad.
Don't use it.
Use the strong tag a bit.
They do accomplish the same thing but
the strong one is going
to make more sense later.
All right, good question.
Thank you anonymous internet stranger
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so.
>> Male Student 2: Next question's
about like XHTML versus HTML5?
>> Brian Holt: So in this class,
we're gonna be talking about HTML5.
So there are different revisions of HTML.
Any more, HTML5 is supported everywhere.
So just don't even worry about old stuff,
at least for this class.
You might go to a job and
you might work on like Windows XP and
have to use Internet Explorer 6, and then
you might have to care about like XHTML
and if that's the case,
I'm really really sorry.
[LAUGH]
But for
the purpose of this class,
we'll be talking about HTML5 and
practical differences, they're 90%
the same thing, for the most part.
>> Male Student 1: And then on that
note on HTML 5, they're talking
about self closing tags,
is that considered bad practice in HTML 5?
>> Brian Holt: The self-closing tags?
You mean having trailing slash versus
not having the trailing slash or
just having self-closing tags.
>> Male Student 1: Yeah, I believe so.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, well you have
to have self-closing tags, right?
You can't make an image any other way,
right?
If I did this
>> Brian Holt: This is
not valid HTML like the closing IMG.
So either have to have this like
no closing tag or space like this.
Either one's fine.
>> Brian Holt: That make sense?
Yeah, it just doesn't exist like
it's wrong, so don't do it.
And it makes sense right?
You have an image and
just an image stands by itself,
it's it's own entity, it wouldn't enclose,
it's not a container.
It's just a thing that is, that is.
>> Male Student 1: So
some you have the closing complete tag,
some you have self closing tags only,
and some are void tags and
self-closing?
>> Brian Holt: Those terms
are interchangeable.
Self-closing and void tag,
it means exactly the same thing.
And some tags are self-closing,
others are not like for example,
you cannot have a self-closing div.
That's invalid as well.
A div must have an opening tag,
and it must have a closing tag.
>> Male Student 1: Like paragraph,
you can do both with paragraph.
>> Brian Holt: So, just have a like that?
Is that what you're saying?
That's not valid either,
it has to have that.
Now I say not valid.
Your browser is pretty smart and it can
kinda guess what you're trying to do, but
it's just like don't.
[LAUGH] Right?
You don't want your computer
guessing what you wanted,
right cuz it's usually gonna get it wrong.
>> Male Student 2: I think the main
difference is a paragraph is gonna wrap
something, a div is gonna wrap something,
each one's gonna wrap something,
there's content inside of those tags
versus an image is an object, it's just.
>> Brian Holt: It's an entity that exists.
>> Male Student 2: Yeah,
you're not gonna wrap.
>> Brian Holt: Something in an image.
>> Male Student 2: You're not
gonna wrap text in an image tag.
>> Brian Holt: Does that kinda make sense?
I think it's just one of those
things with practice comes.
And another disclaimer that I'll throw out
here is I've learned a lot of things from
teaching my wife to code because she
yells at me when she doesn't like stuff.
You all are very nice that you
don't yell at me and throw things.
My wife is not quite that nice
when I'm teaching her things or
maybe I deserve it probably.
So it's not her problem, it's my problem.
I make my wife sound abusive, she's not.
So I love her.
Yes, so my wife wants to understand
every little piece of something right now.
She's like well what is that
title doing right now, right?
Sometimes there's just things that it's
better to just ignore them right now and
try and come back and
understand them later.
Because like I said,
there's a very wide foundation you
need to get to understand HTML.
And so to try to understand every
micro piece of data right now,
it's going to paralyse you, right?
Because sometimes this has to be there but
it is not gonna make sense until you
understand this other piece, right,
very common thing in web development.
So ignorance is bliss sometimes,
I guess that's what I am trying to get at,
is learn to ignore something until
it's the right time to learn it.
Okay, so other questions before I
start talking about attributes?
>> Male Student 1: There's onw where I
wonder why you are using the doc types
in here, in this HTML file,
is that just an example in CodePen?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, and like it's
just another one of those things,
I don't want to explain it right now and
I will explain them.
>> Male Student 1: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So there's a thing
that's called doc types that
kind of let the browser know what
type of HTML you're gonna give it.
That's the basic story.
I'm omitting it.
Don't omit it when you're
doing it in code, but
it's okay to omit it when
we're talking about it.
>> Brian Holt: Cuz right now,
actually technically,
everything's all ready wrapped in HTML and
body.
So you have to nest it in HTML
body which is not correct,
you can't have two body elements.
Anyway, okay so
SRC right here, okay?
An image needs to know where to go.
So sometimes these HTML, let's see if
I can even get it on the same page.
So notice like you have
line numbers right here.
So this SRC actually is on the same line,
it's just too long to
fit it on the same line.
Sometimes these HTML tags need
additional information that are kind of
metadata about the tags, right?
We'll talk about classes and
IDs later, which are also attributes.
For this particular case, you need
to tell it where the image is, and
that's what this is
what this SRC thing is.
And so notice,
it's enclosed within the tag.
So most of the time
we've just seen head and
head is surrounded by
angle brackets right.
Here image is surrounding not only IMG but
and the first thing is always going to be
what type of tag it is and then after
that the order isn't important, right?
[COUGH] So
the source tells it where the image is,
and then we close the tag afterwards.
That kind of make sense?
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
Well I think, again we'll repeat this
ad nauseum I use images all over this.
So you'll see attributes
a ton as we go forward.
But it's essentially like here's
more information about this
tag that you'll need.
That's kind of the point of an attribute.